#Different cloud compute modules
1. SaaS – Software as a Service: This service or module allows us to use every software as a service and it serves software solution to 
the end user. This module is the top most layer of the Cloud Computing, the End user can directly consume this service. 
For example, when you use google docs, Email services and sales force applications, ERP, CRM Applications. 

2. PaaS – Platform as a Service: This module allows users to create their own cloud applications using Cloud service providers with 
simplified specific tools and languages. PaaS is completely Built-in Service for Databases ,Web Applications, and Deployments.
Examples: AWS Lambda

3. IaaS – Infrastructure as a Service: Infrastructure as a service offers virtualized servers and software to the users. 
It will be hosted in within the Cloud Data Centers. If you want to use that Virtualized Hardware or Servers, we have to pay the Cloud 
vendors. The main benefit is we don’t need to buy all the Hardware and software for a longer time. we only pay for the services what 
we use in a virtual environment(cloud). The Cloud Vendors manage and maintain the Data Centers. You can simply focus on your business. 
IaaS serves Complete Infrastructure level services like Virtual Servers, Storage, Network, Security and System Management.
Examples: AWS Elastic Compute Service, EC2 

https://www.techinformant.in/cloud-computing-introduction/


#EC2 Purchasing Options and Types
On-Demand Instances
pay for compute capacity by the hour with no long-term commitments
enables to increase or decrease compute capacity depending on the demands and only pay the specified hourly rate for used instances
frees from the costs and complexities of planning, purchasing, and maintaining hardware and transforms what are commonly large fixed 
costs into much smaller variable costs also helps remove the need to buy “safety net” capacity to handle periodic traffic spikes.

Reserved Instances
provides significant discount (up to 75%) compared to On-Demand instance pricing.
provides flexibility to change families, operating system types, and tenancies with Convertible Reserved Instances.

Spot Instances
allow you to bid on spare EC2 computing capacity.
are often available at a discount compared to On-Demand pricing, helping reduce the application cost, grow it’s compute capacity and 
throughput for the same budget

Dedicated Instances – that run on hardware dedicated to a single customer for additional isolation.

Dedicated Hosts
are physical servers with EC2 instance capacity fully dedicated to your use.
can help you address compliance requirements and reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software licenses.

